.\" Manpage for dml(1)
.TH DML 1 "May 2025" "v0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dml \- display Markdown (bold/italic) and LaTeX inline in the terminal via Kitty graphics protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dml
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] < \fIFILE\fR
.br
\fIsome_command\fR | \fBdml\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dml
reads text from standard input, processes it, and prints to standard output.
It renders:
.TP
\fBMarkdown\fR
  Basic Markdown styling:
  \*Bbold\*B (\fB**bold**\fR or \fB__bold__\fR) text.
  \*Iitalic\*I (\fI*italic*\fR or \fI_italic_\fR) text.
.TP
\fBLaTeX Math (as images)\fR
  Inline math snippets (\fI$formula$\\fR).
  Display math blocks (\fI$$formula$$\\fR).
.LP
Rendered LaTeX images are displayed using the Kitty terminal graphics protocol.
Unrecognized Markdown syntax and other text are passed through as is.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--colour\fR \fICOLOR\fR
Set the text colour for rendered LaTeX images.
\fICOLOR\fR can be a named colour (e.g., "red", "blue") or a hex code (e.g., "#FF0000", "#0F0").
Defaults to "white".
.TP
\fB-c\fR \fICOLOR\fR
Short alias for \fB--colour\fR. If both are provided, \fB-c\fR takes precedence.
.TP
\fB--size\fR \fISIZE\fR
Set the target terminal row height for rendered LaTeX images.
\fISIZE\fR is an integer. A value of \fB0\fR (default) uses 1 row for inline math
and attempts to auto-size display math according to the terminal's perception
of the image's aspect ratio. Specific positive integers (e.g., 1, 2, 3)
request the image be scaled to that many terminal cell rows.
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fISIZE\fR
Short alias for \fB--size\fR. If both are provided, \fB-s\fR takes precedence.
.TP
\fB--dpi\fR \fIDPI_VALUE\fR
Set the DPI (dots per inch) for rendering LaTeX images.
\fIDPI_VALUE\fR is an integer. Defaults to \fB300\fR.
Higher values produce sharper images but may increase processing time and image size.
Use a value like \fB150\fR for lower resolution, or \fB600\fR for higher resolution.
.TP
\fB-d\fR \fIDPI_VALUE\fR
Short alias for \fB--dpi\fR. If both are provided, \fB-d\fR takes precedence.
.TP
\fB--render-all-latex\fR
Render the entire input (including Markdown formatting like bold/italic, and plain text)
as a single LaTeX document. This document is then compiled and displayed as one
continuous image using the Kitty graphics protocol.
This mode ensures consistent LaTeX font rendering for all content, but all text
becomes part of an image and is not selectable as terminal text.
Basic Markdown (bold, italic) and LaTeX math expressions within the input
are converted to their LaTeX equivalents.
.TP
\fB-l\fR
Short alias for \fB--render-all-latex\fR.
.TP
\fB--help\fR, \fB-h\fR
  (Note: Standard Go flag behavior; prints usage to stderr and exits.)
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
\fB0\fR
  Success.
.TP
\fB\>0\fR
  An error occurred (e.g., unable to render LaTeX, file issues).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Display a file containing Markdown and LaTeX:
.RS
.B dml < my_document.md
.RE
.TP
Pipe output from another command:
.RS
.B echo '**Important:** $E=mc^2$' | dml --colour green
.RE
.TP
Render inline math at a specific height (e.g., 2 terminal rows):
.RS
.B echo 'An inline formula $x^2$ sized to 2 rows.' | dml -s 2
.RE
.TP
Render display math with a custom DPI (e.g., 150 DPI):
.RS
.B echo \'Display math at 150 DPI: $$ \\int_0^\\infty e^{-x^2} dx = \\frac{\\sqrt{\\pi}}{2} $$\' | dml --dpi 150
.RE
.TP
Render an entire document (Markdown and text) as a single LaTeX image:
.RS
.B echo \'# Doc Title\\nSome **bold** and *italic* text, with math $E=mc^2$.\nThis will all be one image.\' | dml -l
.RE
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
\fBpdflatex\fR
  Required for compiling LaTeX. Part of TeX distributions (e.g., TeX Live, MiKTeX).
.TP
\fBconvert\fR
  Required for converting PDFs to PNGs. Part of ImageMagick.
.TP
\fBKitty Terminal (or compatible)\fR
  Required to display the rendered images, as dml uses the Kitty graphics protocol.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Little
.SH SEE ALSO
groff(1), man(1), pdflatex(1), convert(1)